Hi everybody welcome back.
Now in this lecture we're going to look at using exceptions to prevent crashes.
I'm going to look at the outlook so handling errors is especially important when the program has more
work to do after the error occurs.
After all you don't want your program to crash leaving your users unable to work.
So let's take a look at an example.
So we're going to create here is we're going to create a program that divides two numbers.
So let's say print let's ask for please enter two numbers to be divided.
Here we go.
Next we say print enter.
Q
To Quit.
There we go.
Now what's next we're going to use a flag.
So while true
why true first number
equals import
new line colon quote new line first number.
Here we go.
So enter the first number leave a space that makes it easier.
Now if our first number is Q Then what we do we know from previous experience we break.
Don't forget your colon after Q Which I just don't break.
There we go.
I mean remove that pass.
Now we want our second number.
We're just creating variables here like we've done 100 times before input.
Second number
there we go.
Now again if second number is q then break.
So X is the program.
Now answer
equals can be an end.
Because we're asking people for numbers first number divided.
So you see the mathematical operations coming out here and it's divided by the second number as we go
print.
Answer.
So all of this makes perfect sense after what we've done in the previous lectures.
So let's say this now and then copy it into our Idol program because again we're asking for user input
and we can't do that here.
OK so here we are in idle and we have our code as we've just written and let's run this now and see
what happens.
Please enter two numbers to be divided into Q to quit.
So our first number is 5.
Our second number is zero error but that's exactly what we wanted because this program does not handle
errors.
So let's close this now and let's go back to our program here in sublime and let's see how we would
handle errors so we can make our division program a little more stable by wrapping the line that might
produce an error in a try except block the error occurs on the line that performs the division.
So I put it there.
We'll also include in the else block any code that depends on the try block executing successfully goes
in the out block.
So let's have a look at what we would do here.
So it's around our second number input that the error can occur where a user could enter 0.
So what we'll do is we'll put a try except block here so we have second numbers.
Let's just get ourselves a bit of room to work
so second number.
Try
answer
equals and so this is just what we have down below first number divided by in second number.
There we go.
Now except if we guess someone trying to divide by zero zero division error
then we print.
You cannot you can't divide by zero.
OK.
Else
print answer.
OK there we go.
Let's just remove our code down below because we don't need that anymore.
OK.
So what we have here is where do you come potentially enter in 0 which will impact our program.
We have a try except block so try answer if 0 division error is raised we output.
You can't divide by zero.
Or else we print the answer and s w there.
Cut that just in time before we went and we can run a program.
There we go.
So let's move this over to now and see what happens.
So here we are back in.
Now let's run this piece into two numbers two to be to be divided into Q to quit first number five second
number 0.
You can't divide by zero.
Excellent.
So first number 10 second number to 5 beautiful.
Or try blup now includes the only code that might cause an error and any code that depends on the block
succeeding is added to the block except block tells platen how to respond when a zero division error
occurs by anticipating likely sources of errors.
We can write more robust programs that will continue to run even when they encounter invalid data and
missing resources.
So I hope that was helpful.
Thanks for listening and I'll see you in the next lecture.